efforts to secure a ceasefire in Gaza
before the start of Ramadan have stalled
war and hunger are overshadowing the eve
of the Muslim holy month eight agencies
say International efforts to ramp up
deliveries of humanitarian supplies by
air and now by sea are not effective
enough in parts of Gaza Ramadan
decorations and food are still available
but not at prices most people can afford
there are no jobs left no water and no
electricity people are selling their
belongings to
live and Ramadan is very hard on
us for most Palestinians food to break
ramadan's daily fasting will be hard to
come
by we rarely eat whether it is Ramadan
or
not and we always remain
hungry in Rafa parents are getting
creative to help children
celebrate Ramadan Ramadan is very
different this year we're not in our
homes we're intense but we insisted on
putting up decorations and celebrating
we just pray that by the end of Ramadan
we'll be in our
homes others find the fighting between
Hamas and Israeli forces too much to
bear children reportedly injured in an
Israeli bombing are rushed to the
hospital in the central Gaza
Strip ongoing Israeli air strikes are
taking a psychological
toll we are tired I swear please feel
for us please we want to ceasefire and
an end to this what do we have to say
we'd thank God for
anything
without a ceasefire in time for Ramadan
and an Israeli ground assault into Rafa
still a possibility the suffering of
ordinary Palestinians continues without
belief in
sight our correspondent Felix tams in
Jerusalem told me about Israeli concerns
about Security in the run up to
Ramadan well Security Forces here have
been on eye alert over the past uh 24
hours uh Israel has been PR preparing
itself for the holy month of Ramadan
which will start tomorrow as confirmed
by Saudi Arabia in recent hours and I
think what everyone's uh the day which
everyone is uh worried about is mostly
Friday having said that uh given the
fact that the Israeli government uh will
allow um Arabs and Muslims with a
palestin with an Israeli passport to uh
go and pray um without any restrictions
um the Israeli authorities will hope
that it would help at the same time it
needs to be said that Hamas and other
groups uh have been calling for uh
unrest to take place so um I would say
that security forces here in Jerusalem
are indeed on high alert and they're
going to stay like that in the coming
days at the very
least speaking of Hamas what about the
talks between them and uh and Israel on
a
ceasefire well um we can say that the
isra the Israeli intelligence the mosad
released a statement yesterday saying
that Hamas uh are unwilling to reach an
agreement uh when it comes to the to a
new hostage deal which would inevitably
which would probably uh include a
ceasefire uh to a certain extent uh at
the same time we have Hamas officials
saying that they it's of their interest
to reach to reach such a such an
agreement uh what's clear to everyone is
that such a Swire is very unlikely at
this point um and um developments uh are
highly unlikely until the beginning of
Ramadan tomorrow meanwhile US President
Joe Biden has criticized Israel's prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu again what's
Biden saying and how's it going down
with the
Israelis well the rhetoric when it comes
to the Biden Administration has been um
intensifying when it comes to their
critique not necessarily of Israel as
such but of Netanyahu on a personal
level we had um President Biden saying
that uh netan is hurting Israel more
than helping it we had vice president
Harris saying um that there needs to be
a distinction between the Israeli
government and the Israeli public um
just in the past hour we've seen a
response from netan saying that the the
Israeli public is behind his policies um
but at the same time you cannot ignore
the fact that the rhetoric when it comes
to the US Administration has been going
a certain way and I think everyone in
Israel is expecting it um to follow this
line in the coming days at the very
least okay uh we'll have to leave it
there Felix tamet thank you for that
from
Jerusalem